This is the list of resources.
bioengineering students should pass all classes with a minimum GPA of 3 to graduate.
How do I pay for parking? You can sign up for parking by visiting the Parking, Transportation, and Maps website (https://www.cuanschutz.edu/offices/facilities-management/parking-transportation-maps/parking/permit-parking)
Where is the Bioengineering department located? The Bioengineering department is located  on the first floor of Bioscience 2 at 12705 E Montview Blvd Suite 100, Aurora, CO 80045
the following is the full 2024-2025 student handbook:
Graduate Student Handbook
2024-2025
*The year of this guide corresponds to the year of matriculation into the program. It will also
be the “catalog year” for the student’s major.
Denver Campus Office
Department of Bioengineering,
College of Engineering, Design and Computing
1200 Larimer Street, NC-2204
Denver, Colorado 80217
Anschutz Medical Campus Office
Center for Bioengineering, CU School of Medicine
Anschutz Medical Campus, Bioscience 2
12705 East Montview Blvd., Suite 100
Aurora, CO 80045
Phone: 303.724.5893
Publish Date: January 2024
This guide does not constitute a contract, either expressed or implied, with the Bioengineering
Program or the University of Colorado Denver, College of Engineering, Design and Computing,
and the University reserves the right at any time to change, delete or add to any of the provisions
at its sole discretion. Furthermore, the provisions of this document are designed by the University
to serve as guidelines rather than absolute rules, and exceptions may be made on the basis of
particular circumstances. August 2024.
2
Table of Contents
2
How to use this Handbook
5
Important Acronyms
5
About the Program
6
The Department of Bioengineering Mission
6
The Department of Bioengineering Program
6
Academic Calendar
6
Faculty
& Staff
6
Bioengineering Events
7
New Student Orientation
7
Teaching Assistant and Grader Training
7
Recruitment and Community Events
7
Other Department Events
7
Student Organizations
7
Academic Integrity Policy
& Expectations of Students
8
Academic Integrity
8
Conduct Expectations
9
Alcohol and Drug Use
9
Professionalism 10
Grievances
1
0
Email
1
0
University Conduct Support
1
0
Student Resources
1
0
Student Services
1
0
Bioengineering Student Services
1
1
Office of Student Affairs
1
1
Student Senate
1
1
UCDAccess
1
1
Equal Opportunity and Non
-Discrimination
1
1
Notice of Non
-Discrimination
1
1
Title IX Notice of Non
-Discrimination
1
1
Contact the Campus Title IX Offices:
1
2
Disability Resources
1
2
Police and Safety
1
2
Denver Campus Police:
1
2
Anschutz Medical Campus Police:
1
2
Badging
& Room Access
1
3
Anschutz Campus Badging
1
3
Room Reservations
1
3
Bursar's Office
1
3
Table of Contents
3
Resources for Books 13
Health and Wellness 14
Campus Gyms 14
The Phoenix Center of Anschutz 14
Campus Community Health 14
CU Anschutz CARE Team 14
Student Health Insurance 15
Housing 15
Anschutz Medical Campus Student Services 15
Parking and Transportation 15
Registrar's Office 16
Bioscience 2 Resources 16
Lounge and Study Spaces 16
Lockers 16
Printing 16
The Graduate Program in Bioengineering 16
Graduate Program Governance 17
Program Requirements & Academics 18
University Training Requirements 18
Student Methods & Research Seminars and Examination Talks 18
Coursework Requirements 19
Elective Course Selection 19
Enrollment Policies 19
Taking Classes at another CU campus 19
Enrollment Status 19
Enrollment Status and Funding 19
PhD Full-time Enrollment Requirements 20
Courses, Grades & Academic Probation 21
Withdrawing from a Class 21
Repeating a Class 21
Program of Study Sheet 22
Independent Study 22
Transferring Credit 22
Substituting a Core Class 23
Withdrawing from the Program 23
Bioengineering Degree Options 23
Entrepreneurship Certificates 23
Dual MS/MBA 24
Dual MD-MS 24
Time Commitment 25
Policy on External Employment for PhD Students 26
Grad School Policy for Vacation & Leave (PhD) 26
Vacation and Holidays 26
Sick Leave and Other Leave 26
Funding, Tuition and Residency 27
Master's Students 27
Tuition & Fees 27
PhD Students 27
4
Travel Funding 28
Colorado Residency 28
PhD Program Milestones 28
PhD Timeline Table 29
Lab Rotation 29
Year 1: Preliminary Examination 29
Preliminary Examination Committee 30
Preliminary Examination description 30
Dissertation Advisory Committee 31
Graduate Faculty Appointments 32
Years 2-3: Comprehensive Examination 32
Years 4-5: The Defense Examination and Graduation 33
Publication Deadlines 33
Time Limit for PhD Completion 34
Policy on Change of Academic Advisor 34
Applicability 34
Rationale 34
Rules for changing advisors: 34
Master's Program Milestones 35
MS Timeline Table 35
Choosing Academic Advisor 35
Choosing Your Project/Thesis 36
Choosing Exam Committee 36
Years 2-3: Final Defense Exam 37
Publication Guidelines 37
Time Limit for Master's Completion 37
Continuing from the MS to the PhD 38
Graduate Student Commencement Policy 38
Directory of Services 38
Anschutz Medical Campus Badging Office 38
Anschutz Medical Campus Parking Office 39
Anschutz Medical Campus University Police Department 39
CARE Team 39
Student Health Insurance Office 39
Office of Campus Student Services, Anschutz Medical Campus 39
Student Mental Health Service 39
Department Directory 39
5
How to use this Handbook
This guide is intended to provide information, rules, regulations, policies and procedures for
the graduate programs in Bioengineering, the College of Engineering, Design and Computing,
and CU Denver | Anschutz Medical Campus. It is recommended that students interested in
pursuing a degree in Bioengineering contact the Director of Student Services or the Graduate
Program Director prior to applying to CU Denver.
Contact Info for Questions on the Graduate Program
Director of Student Services: Shaun Boulier; email: Shaun.Boulier@CUAnschutz.edu
Graduate Program Director: Emily Gibson; email: Emily.Gibson@CUAnschutz.edu
A copy of this Student Guide is available to every student in the Bioengineering Program. Each
student is responsible for reading, understanding, and complying with all rules, regulations,
and policies stated in this publication for their degree program of interest.
A revised copy of this Guide will be provided to each degree-seeking student annually.
Addenda to the Guide will be published and distributed as necessary. The Department of
Bioengineering, with consultation from other University staff and administration, will address
issues not explicitly mentioned in this Guide as needed.
CU Denver, the College of Engineering, Design and Computing, and the Bioengineering
program reserves the right to revise information, requirements, policies, rules, and
regulations at any time. Whenever changes occur, every effort will be made to notify
students who may be impacted.
Important Acronyms
AMC = Anschutz Medical Campus
AY = Academic Year
BIOE = Bioengineering
BS = Bachelor of Science
DC = Downtown Campus
MS = Master’s in Bioengineering
PhD = Doctorate in Bioengineering
BMES = Biomedical Engineering Society
BUAC = Bioengineering Undergraduate Affairs Committee
GAC = Graduate Affairs Committee
GPA = Grade Point Average
6
The Department of Bioengineering Mission
The mission of the CU Denver | Anschutz Department of Bioengineering isto improve human health
through the application of engineering principles, ideas, methods and inventions in order to solve
important clinical problems.
The Department of Bioengineering Program
The Department of Bioengineering is the first program of its kind in Colorado, offering students
unparalleled opportunities as they learn and work on Colorado’s only academic medical campus.
The combination of technical learning, immersive experiences in the clinical and biomedical
enterprise beyond the classroom, and out-of-classroom opportunities to learn about cutting-edge
patient care and research, is provided by only a handful of universities across the United States.
Bioengineering is a dual-campus department and program. Administratively, the Department of
Bioengineering is within the College of Engineering, Design and Computing, located on the
Downtown Campus (DC) in Denver. Physically, the department is located on the Anschutz Medical
Campus (AMC) in Aurora. Undergraduate students complete the first portion of their studies on the
Downtown Campus, and then complete their degree at AMC. Graduate students will spend the
majority of their time on the medical campus; however, they may choose to and are permitted to
enroll in classes on the downtown or Boulder campuses.
The consolidation of the Downtown Campus (DC) and the Anschutz Medical Campus (AMC)
provides unprecedented instructional resources in bioengineering and research opportunities in
health sciences. Students have opportunities to learn from clinicians and engineers and to perform
research or medical device design in world-class hospitals and clinical research labs.
The Department of Bioengineering is housed in Bioscience 2 and Bioscience 3 at AMC. This stateof-the-art facility offers specialized teaching spaces including a Biomechanics and
Bioinstrumentation Lab, a Biomechanical Analysis Lab, a Design and Prototyping Lab, a Light
Machine Shop, a Biomaterials with Cell/Tissue Culture Lab, and a Clinical Simulation and Assistive
Technology suite. The building also offers students several community spaces to meet, collaborate,
study, and socialize.
Academic Calendar
The Department of Bioengineering follows the DC academic and holiday calendars, which are
sometimes different from the AMC calendar. Please pay close attention to the appropriate calendars
and check with professors or program administrators if you have any questions or concerns. Students
may find the Academic Calendars here.
Faculty & Staff
The program strives to create an atmosphere that is respectful and inclusive, with an emphasis on
the student. All faculty and staff have open-door policies and will communicate office hours;
scheduling a one-on-one meeting is the best way to ensure staff availability.
About the Program
7
Bioengineering Events
The University of Colorado Denver and the Anschutz Medical Campus are continually hosting
events across disciplines; students are encouraged to attend events that may deepen their
understanding of a particular topic of interest, and engage in the greater CU Denver community
through involvement in clubs, academic honor societies, and other organizations. The Department of
Bioengineering hosts several events as well.
New Student Orientation
The week before fall classes begin, allstudentsstarting coursework at the Anschutz Medical Campus
are invited to New Student Orientation. This one-day event includes an orientation to students’
academic program and the medical campus, as well as an opportunity to speak to continuing students,
hear from faculty and learn more about the department’s culture, opportunities and resources.
Teaching Assistant and Grader Training
All students who accept a position as a TA or Grader are responsible for participating in the TA and
Grader training at the beginning of the semester, as well as intermittent TA and Grader check-ins
with Department of Bioengineering TA and Grader Leader Jeffrey Jacot:
JEFFREY.JACOT@CUANSCHUTZ.EDU.
Students are also required to take the following Skillsoft training, if not already taken:
CU: Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct - CU Denver | Anschutz
CU: Information Security Awareness – CU Denver | Anschutz
Recruitment and Community Events
As part of the bioengineering community, students may be asked to participate in recruitment and
community events sponsored by the department. These may include open houses, high school visits,
laboratory tours, PhD recruitment events, conferences etc.
Other Department Events
The Department hosts Lunch and Learn events during the lunch hour (12:15-2:00pm) on the second
Wednesday of each month (excluding finals and holidays). Lunch & Learns feature a variety of
speakers, from industry professionals to career preparation experts to biomedical nonprofit leaders.
Research in Progress lectures are presented by graduate students, and showcase their Master’s or
PhD research work.
The Department also hosts a Bioengineering Seminar Series and Research in Progress events. The
Seminar Series features prominent bioengineering research faculty from around the country and is a
great way to learn more about the field. Research in Progress lectures are presented by graduate
students, and showcase their Master’s or PhD research work.
Student Organizations
Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES)
Promotes a collaborative and inclusive community to advance human health through education,
discovery, and translation. For more information, contact bmes@cuanschutz.edu.
8
Bioengineering Empowerment Program (BEEP)
Created in 2020 as a way to provide opportunities and resources for high school students to gain
access to engineering, medicine, and other STEM fields, BEEP is a community oriented, studentled initiative. It connects local high schools and high school students with the bioengineering
program at the CU Denver and CU Anschutz campuses. Throughout the year, BEEP will provide
mentorship, tutoring, activities, events, lab tours, presentations, and other ways for high school
students to engage with the resources available at the CU campuses. For more information, contact
BEEP@ucdenver.edu.
Society for Biomaterials (SFB)
A multidisciplinary society of academic, healthcare, governmental and business professionals
dedicated to promoting advancements in all aspects of biomaterial science, education and
professional standards to enhance human health and quality of life. For more information, contact
societyforbiomaterials@cuanschutz.edu
Society of Women Engineers
Not-for-profit educational and service organization that empowers women to succeed and advance
in the field of engineering and to be recognized for their life-changing contributions as engineers
and leaders. For more information, contact SWE@UCDenver.edu.
Women in Neural Engineering (W.I.N.E)
Created in 2022 the local chapter of Women in Neural Engineering (W.I.N.E.) at Anschutz
Medical Campus is a budding interdisciplinary community created to support all women in
neuroscience, neurotechnology, neuromodulation, and neural engineering at AMC. For more
information, contact
wine-amc@cuanschutz.edu.

Academic Integrity
Research Honesty and Integrity
As a future bioengineer, students should adhere to the highest standards of professionalism in
research and conduct. Examples of unprofessional conduct include misrepresenting effort,
credentials, or achievement in either an academic or professional setting; any action that
compromises the quality or safety of patients, research subjects or colleagues; violation of patient
or student confidentiality; and falsification of data. Read the full Academic Integrity Policy effective
as of January 1, 2020.
Conduct Expectations
The Bioengineering program strives to create an atmosphere that is respectful and inclusive, with an
emphasis on student growth and learning. To create such an environment, it is critical that all
members of the bioengineering community and degree program understand and aim to meet clearly
defined expectations.
Academic Integrity Policy & Expectations of Students
9
Alcohol and Drug Use
Students must adhere to current University policy governing alcohol consumption on campus and at
official functions. Access to University of Colorado Hospital and the Children’s Hospital Colorado
requires passing a standard drug test. In addition, the Anschutz Medical Campus is a smoke-free
zone.
Alcohol and/or drug abuse compromises the student's ability to learn and to practice as a researcher
and is thus considered unprofessional conduct. Students who attend class and appear to be
cognitively impaired as a result of drug or alcohol intoxication may be dismissed from class and/or
referred to University Student Services for further action.
Professionalism
As current and/or future professionals, students are expected to adhere to the highest standards of
professionalism during their academic career. This means that students adhere to the professional
and ethical standards of their respective fields, and the academic and honor code expectations for
the University of Colorado Graduate School.
The University of Colorado Graduate School has a commitment to accepting a diverse culture and
highly values multiple perspectives. This means that not only is discrimination of any form
unacceptable, but the University upholds the expectation that students remain open-minded, and
respectfully discuss and interact with diverse backgrounds and perspectives.
Examples of unprofessional conduct include misrepresentation of effort, credentials, or achievement
in either the academic or professional setting; any action which compromises the quality or safety
of consumer care; violation of confidentiality; and any other conduct unbefitting a professional
practitioner or researcher. When conducting research, individuals need to comply with research
guidelines established by the IRB.
Although it is not possible to list every situation that violates the Academic Integrity Expectations
of the Graduate School at University of Colorado Denver and Anschutz Medical Campus, the
following examples will provide a reference point:
 Academic Dishonesty
 Complicity with Academic Dishonesty
 Plagiarism
 Cheating
 Fabrication and Falsification
 Submission of the same papers more than once or for different classes
 Misuse of Academic Materials
 Any conduct, both on and off campus, that interferes with the student’s ability to perform
his/her classroom, laboratory, or professional duties or reflects poorly on the University
 Violation of any University of Colorado, Anschutz Medical Campus, Denver Campus, or
Graduate School policy
10
The program expects that all graduate students will conduct themselves with the utmost integrity in
academics, research, service and outreach. Regular class attendance is key to success in the program.
As a graduate student, students will have more freedom in setting their research schedule. Students
must respect the lab's culture and requirements, such as lab meetings.
Students who have issues or concerns regarding a class, faculty, staff or another student in the
program may address such concerns with the persons involved. If an issue cannot be resolved and/or
such an approach is inappropriate or uncomfortable, students should contact the Graduate Program
Manager for assistance.
Grievances
Any time an issue or concern with an instructor, faculty, staff or fellow student occurs, please try
addressing that person directly first. If the students are unable to resolve the problem or feel
uncomfortable confronting the person, they may go to the Director of Student Services, their
advisor, the Department Chair or the Graduate Affairs Committee for advice. If the issue cannot be
satisfactorily resolved through those avenues, additional resources are available through the College
of Engineering, Design and Computing, the Graduate School and the University.
Email
Email is the official platform for communication at the university. Students must use their CU
Anschutz email address for all correspondence with university officials including faculty, staff, and
administration. Students may expect department faculty and staff to respond to email within 2-3
working days, after which they are encouraged to send a respectful reminder.
University Conduct Support
The Office of Student Conduct and Community Standards serves as a resource to the entire
University community through its efforts to meet the developmental and educational needs of
students related to community expectations, civility and respect for self and others. A list of
resources can be obtained at the Tivoli Student Union, Suite #277 or at
http://www.ucdenver.edu/life/services/standards.
A complete list of campus life student resources for the Downtown Campus can be found here:
https://www.ucdenver.edu/student-life. Bioengineering is academically and administratively a
downtown department and program, so students have access to resources through the Downtown
Campus student services offices.
CU Anschutz student services can be found here: https://www.cuanschutz.edu/student
Student Services
Bioengineering Student Services
The Department of Bioengineering currently employs a full-time Director of Student Services,
located on the Anschutz Medical Campus in the BioScience 2 Building
Student Resources
11
Office of Student Affairs
The CU Anschutz Office of Student Affairs' mission is to enhance student life at the Anschutz
Medical Campus of the University of Colorado Denver by providing excellence in specific nonacademic and academic student services. They are located on the Anschutz Medical Campus in
Education II North – Third Floor Suite, 3200.
Student Senate
Student Senate is the interdisciplinary student governance group at CU Anschutz. Representatives
are elected from every class in every school or program. They are responsible for the creation and
oversight of the Senate funding requests, which allocates money to affiliated and campus wide
organizations on campus. Senate is also responsible for planning and overseeing campus-wide
senate sponsored events and activities. Senators address complaints and ideas for improving student
life on campus, act as official liaisons between students and administration, attend meetings
regularly and become involved in various committees and their work. Meetings are held every 2nd
and 4th Monday of each month.
UCDAccess
The online Student Self-Service Portal allows you to apply for financial aid, search for and enroll
in classes on the medical and Denver campuses, pay your tuition bills, order transcripts and more.
To log into the UCDAccess portal, you will need your official University username and password.
Equal Opportunity and Non-Discrimination Notice of Non-Discrimination
The University of Colorado Denver ǀ Anschutz Medical Campus does not discriminate on the basis
of race, color, national origin, sex, pregnancy, age, disability, creed, religion, sexual orientation,
gender identity, gender expression, veteran status, political affiliation or political philosophy in
admission and access to, and treatment and employment in, its educational programs and activities.
The University takes affirmative action to increase ethnic, cultural, and gender diversity; to employ
qualified disabled individuals; and to provide equal opportunity to all students and employees.
Students may report allegations of discrimination or harassment to the Office of Equity at
equity@ucdenver.edu and/or calling the office at 303-315-2567.
Title IX Notice of Non-Discrimination
The University of Colorado does not discriminate on the basis of sex, gender or sexual orientation
in its education programs or activities. Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, and certain
other federal and state laws, prohibit discrimination on the basis of sex in all education programs
and activities operated by the university (both on and off campus). Title IX protects all people
regardless of their gender or gender identity from sex discrimination, which includes sexual
harassment and sexual assault.
Title IX requires the university to designate a Title IX Coordinator to monitor and oversee overall 
12
Title IX compliance. Your campus Title IX Coordinator is available to explain and discuss: your
right to file a criminal complaint; the university’s complaint process, including the investigation
process; how confidentiality is handled; available resources, both on and off campus; and other
related matters.
Contact the Campus Title IX Offices:
Phone: 303-315-2567
Email: equity@ucdenver.edu
Anschutz Medical Campus
Fitzsimons Building
Ground Floor
13001 E 17th Place
Aurora, CO 80045
Denver Campus
Lawrence Street
Center, 12th Floor
1380 Lawrence Street
Denver, CO 80217
Additional information regarding Title IX is available at: https://www.ucdenver.edu/offices/equity.
Disability Resources
The Office of Disability, Access, & Inclusion welcomes qualified students with disabilities and is
committed to providing equitable access to our programs. Students who meet the technical and
admission standards of our programs (with or without accommodations) partner with our office to
establish access by identifying and removing barriers related to their disability.
Please schedule an appointment with their office to begin the accommodation process.
Police and Safety
The University of Colorado Denver and the Anschutz Medical Campus are committed to the safety
and security of our students, faculty, staff and visitors. Emergency personnel are available on both
campuses. Contact information is below.
Denver Campus Police:
Auraria Campus Police
Department 1201 5th Street,
Auraria Campus Administration Building (Suite
110) From Cell Phone: 303-556-5000
From Campus Phone: 911
Anschutz Medical Campus Police:
The University Police Department, Anschutz Medical
13309 E 17th Place, Mail Stop F409
For an emergency, dial 911.
For police dispatch and non-emergencies, dial 303-724-4444
13
Badging & Room Access
Anschutz Campus Badging
Students get their University of Colorado Anschutz badge before or at orientation from the Security
Badging Office in the Fitzsimons Building on the Anschutz Medical Campus. Students bear the
costs of replacement badges. All campus community members are required to wear their badges
visibly at all times.
This badge serves the dual purpose of identification and access to many interior and exterior
locations. All Bioengineering students are granted regular student accessto campus. All other access
is added on a need-only basis, and usually takes some time to get the proper approvals, so please
plan ahead!
Additional badges (i.e. hospital badges) may be necessary to conduct research. Badging requests
will only be made at the request of the advisor and upon the approval of the badging authority.
Badge sharing is not permitted. Please direct all badging renewal requests, concerns, and questions to
the Director of Student Services.
Room Reservations
Student Services Staff can assist with room scheduling. Please send all requests to the Director of
Student Services.
 Bursar's Office
TheBursar isresponsible for allfinancial activitiesrelated to student billing, tuition collection,
institutionally managed loan programs and coordination with the state.
Please contact them at bursar@ucdenver.edu
Denver Campus
Student Commons
Building (5thFloor)
303.315.1800
Anschutz Medical
Campus
Education 2 North,
Room 3120A
303.315-1800
Resources for Books
The Anschutz Medical Campus Bookstore is located in Education 2 building. However, most
bioengineering instructors do not send their booklists to the Bookstore. They will direct students to
other resources prior to or at the start of class. Please contact instructors with specific questions.
Computers can be purchased at academic discount prices. Visit the Auraria Campus Bookstore on
Downtown Campus. Students may also ask Apple or Dell directly for the discount.
Tivoli Station Bookstore
Tivoli Building, Suite 105
303.556.4286
www.ahec.edu/servicesdepartments/tivoli/tivoli-station
Medical Campus
Bookstore
Ed 2 South
303.724.2665 (4-BOOK)
https://cuanschutz.bncoll
14
ege.com/
There are excellent libraries located on both campuses, and Bioengineering students have access to
either one
Auraria Library
1100 Lawrence St.
303.315.7763
https://library.auraria.edu/
Straus Health Sciences Library
12950 E. Montview Blvd 303.724.2152
https://library.cuanschutz.edu/
Health and Wellness
Campus Gyms
The Lola & Rob Salazar Student Wellness Center, located on the Downtown Denver Campus, is a
state-of-the-art facility for students of CU Denver. This facility boasts a rock climbing wall,
swimming pool, and more.
The Medical Campus is home to the Anschutz Health and Wellness Center. It offers world- class
research, education and wellness services in one facility. In addition to high quality gym facilities
and group fitness, both wellness centers host cooking classes and wellness services such as
massages.
Student membership to either gym requires a monthly fee.
The Phoenix Center at Anschutz
The Phoenix Center at Anschutz is a free and confidential resource for students, faculty, and staff
who are affected by interpersonal violence (IPV) including relationship violence, sexual violence,
and stalking. Visit www.thepca.org/ for more information.
Community Health Clinic
Community Health Clinic is designed to meet convenient care needs of anyone who works or
studies on campus. The clinic strives to enhance a multi-disciplinary care experience for students
by providing a spectrum of physical and behavioral healthcare in an integrated care model, thereby
exposing future scientists, health professionals and public health practitioners to seamless and
coordinated systems of care. They are located on campus at 1890 N. Revere Ct., Suite 5040, Aurora,
CO 80045
CU Anschutz CARE Team
The Campus Assessment, Response & Evaluation (CARE) Team is committed to improving campus
safety and student success by evaluating individuals that may pose a risk safety of themselves or
others. The team coordinates with students, faculty, and staff as well as concerned others to identify, 
15
assess, and intervene with individuals of concern.
Student Health Insurance
All CU Anschutz Medical Campus students enrolled in a degree-seeking program and financial aid
eligible certificate programs taking one or more credit hours are automatically enrolled into the
student health insurance plan unless a waiver is submitted and approved by the stated deadline each
semester. Students must be registered in order to access university health insurance.
Anthem Student Advantage will be the new insurance provider for both medical and dental
coverage, effective 8/1/2023. Dental and medical coverage will no longer be separated. If you
choose to opt in for medical, dental is included in the insurance fee.
If students choose to use their own insurance, it is important that they waive the coverage by the
deadline. If utilizing university insurance, no action is necessary and coverage will automatically
activate a couple days after the waiver period ends.
Please go to the Student Health Insurance page to complete the necessary steps. Bioengineering
students are considered Anschutz Medical Campus students and should contact the Medical Campus
office with any questions. Funded PhD students who are required to enroll in the Student Health
Insurance Plan (SHIP) will have insurance premiums paid as part of their tuition and fees
The Student Insurance Office is available to assist with selecting or waiving SHIP. Please direct all
plan specific and coverage specific questions to the Student Health Insurance Office:
studentinsurance@cuanschutz.edu
Education II, North Room 3200 13120
E 19th Ave, Aurora, CO 80045 303-
837-2127
Housing
Anschutz Medical Campus Student Services
The Anschutz Medical Campus Office of Campus Student Services maintains listings of students
who are looking for roommates. These listings can be found here:
https://www.cuanschutz.edu/student/resources/housing.
Several apartment complexes have preferred employer/student programs that give application
discounts to AMC students.
Parking and Transportation
The Anschutz Parking and Transportation office is located in Fitzsimons Building on the 2nd floor
(west side of the food court eating area). This office assists students with any requests and questions
regarding parking on campus. Their office can be contacted at 303-724-2555.
Students will have a charge for the RTD College Pass on their account every term. This mandatory
16
fee supports the RTD pass for all students, which includes all regular fixed route services, including
bus (local, express, regional), light rail, call-n-Ride, and skyRide service (free to Medical Campus
students with RTD College Pass). Services not included in College Pass are Access-a-Ride,
BroncosRide, RockiesRide and other special event services.
Students may get their RTD College Pass from the Badging Office with their badge.
Registrar's Office
The Registrar is responsible for all grade and course scheduling activities, including transcripts,
schedule adjustments, course catalog & curriculum management, changes of record, residency, and
personal student information including name change.
Denver Campus
Student Commons Building
303.315.5969
Anschutz Medical Campus
13120 E. 19thAve.
303.724.8000
Bioscience 2 Resources
Lounge and Study Spaces
Bioscience 2 has a Bioengineering-only student lounge with refrigerators and microwaves, as well
as study rooms available on a first come, first serve basis. There is ample room for sitting, studying,
and socializing in the lounge and study rooms.
Lockers
Students may claim a locker in Bioscience 2 by selecting any open locker not in use. To claim a
locker, students must provide their own lock. Students must empty out the locker at the end of the
academic year (spring semester). Lockers that have not been cleaned out at the end of the year will
be emptied and all contents thrown away.
Printing
A student printer is available for all students to use in the Bioscience 2 Student Lounge. In addition,
Anschutz Printing Services offers copying, printing and binding services and there are computer lab
locations across campus, including the Education Buildings, Research 1 and the Health Science
Library.
As a department within the College of Engineering, Design and Computing, Bioengineering is
considered a Denver Campus department. As such, the graduate program in Bioengineering works
most closely with the downtown side of the Graduate Education Office. Students will interact with
the Graduate Education Office most often in their last semester of study. Many of these interactions
are managed collaboratively between the Graduate Education Office, the College of Engineering,
Design and Computing, and the department. That said, graduate students spend the majority, if not
all of their time at the Anschutz Medical Campus.
The Graduate Program in Bioengineering
17
Graduate Program Governance
Graduate Affairs Committee: The Graduate Affairs Committee (GAC) consists of one committee
chair, 3-4 core faculty members from Bioengineering, the Student Services Director, and a graduate
student representative. The GAC is responsible for all aspects of the Bioengineering graduate
program, including routine transactional issues to developing and implementing strategies to
increase national rankings and research excellence. The GAC will also evaluate and make
recommendations to the chair for any changes on policies and procedures pertaining to graduate
curriculum, affairs, and admissions. Among some of its provisions, the GAC serves as the approving
authority for core course substitution and extension to milestone deadlines.
The Graduate Committee in the 2024-2025 academic year:
Dr. Emily Gibson -Chair
Dr. Jeffrey Jacot
Dr. Richard Benninger
Dr. Eric Roth
Dr. Brisa Peña
Dr. Richard Weir
Student Services Director – Shaun Boulier
Graduate Student Representative
18
The Department Chair is Dr. Kristyn Masters. You may need to meet with the Department Chair to
request exceptionsto policy or to address concerns. Dr. Masters is available by appointment to discuss
your academic and career goals.
The Graduate Program Director is Dr. Emily Gibson. Dr. Gibson approves all defenses and exams,
though the Director of Student Services will route most of these for approval. Feel free to schedule a
meeting with Dr. Gibson to discuss any program concerns or feedback.
Program Requirements & AcademicsUniversity Training Requirements
The University delivers most of its safety and other training online through SkillSoft via UCD Access
(accessible upon matriculation). All students must take (and remain current on):
• CU: Chemical Waste Management
• CU: Lab Safety
• CU: Regulated Medical Waste Management
• CU: Bloodborne Pathogens
• CU: HIPAA Regulations
• CU: Information Security and Privacy Awareness
• CU: Discrimination and Sexual Misconduct - CU Denver | Anschutz
Students may be required to take additional training modules depending on their research project or
teaching duties. Graders and Teaching Assistants must attend the TA and Grader Training organized
by CU Online at the beginning of the term and take the following Skillsoft training: CU: FERPA.
University of Colorado Hospital Access Requirements
In order to participate in some of the exciting clinical training opportunities at the University of
Colorado Hospital (UC Health) and/or Children’s Hospital Colorado, students will be required to
provide documentation of current vaccinations or titers as well as pass a background check, 10- panel
drug test and safety training. Students must also be able to provide proof of current health insurance.
The cost of the background check and drug test will be covered by student fees through the department.
Note that the 10-panel drug test includes marijuana and cannabis-derived products and can detect
usage in the previous 2 weeks dependent on the frequency of use.
The department will not provide students with copies of their University of Colorado Hospital
documentation. In addition, such documents will not be shared with a third party, even at the student’s
request. Therefore, it is strongly recommended that students make copies of all documents (including
vaccination records) prior to submission.
Research Seminars and Examination Talks
The Department of Bioengineering facilitates Research in Progress Lectures, where graduate students
have the opportunity to practice their presentation skills while sharing their research with the rest of
the program. The decision to sign up for a Research in Progress Lecture is typically made by a student
in consultation with their research advisor. All students are encouraged to attend these events.
Student examinations (PhD comprehensive exam, dissertation defense, MS thesis defense) will be
advertised by the Bioengineering Department with an email containing the date, time, location and
abstract at both the Anschutz Campus and the Downtown Campus.
The Bioengineering Seminar Series invites prominent bioengineering faculty from across the country
19
and the world to present their research. Additionally, most speakers will meet with students at some
point in the day. Each year, we invite one student chosen speaker based on recommendations from the
graduate and undergraduate students. Please make every effort to attend these talks, as they are good
learning experiences.
Coursework Requirements
MS students will take an additional 22 credit hours outside of the 8 required credits for a total of 30 credit
hours. These 22 credit hours must include three to six credit hours of project or thesis (BIOE 6960 or
BIOE 6950), six credit hours of life sciences electives, six credit hours of technical (engineering)
electives, plus additional credit hours of general elective courses (in engineering, science, or business)
to meet the 30 credit hour requirement. Students may not exceed 6 credit hours for project/thesis.
PhD students will take an additional 22 credit hours outside of the 8 required credits of didactic
(instruction-based) coursework and 30 credit hours of dissertation (BIOE 8990). Students are expected
to outline the entire program of study at their preliminary examination before the start of the second
year. The exam committee may make recommendations for changes to this plan. Students must also
plan their dissertation credits carefully.
Elective Course Selection
There is not a specific list of courses for general elective coursework; for an MS degree, students may
include no more than 6 hours of 4000 (senior) level courses from another program (cannot be BIOE),
and for a PhD degree, all elective coursework must be graduate-level (5000 or above). In addition,
electives must be relevant to the student’s degree plan, and approved by the student’s thesis/project or
dissertation committee in advance. Undergraduate-level coursework cannot be applied toward a PhD
degree in Bioengineering.
Enrollment Policies
Taking Classes at another CU campus
Students who wish to take classes at CU Boulder or Colorado Springs must submit an “Intercampus
Enrollment Form” to the Student Services Director. This form can be found on the Registrar’s Office
website. Once this form is processed, CU Denver Registrar’s Office will manually enroll the students
on the first day of the term. Please note that this means that popular classes may fill up before that day.
Talking to the professor ahead of time may help, as professors can often grant enrollment even if the
class is officially full (if classroom capacity allows). Please be sure to have a backupoption in case the
class is full before the first day of the term.
Enrollment Status
According to the Office of the Registrar, full and part- time graduate statuses are defined as: Full-time:
• 5 or more semester hours OR
• 1 or more credit hours of thesis (BIOE 6950), project (BIOE 6960) or dissertation (BIOE 8990)
Half-time:
• 3 - 4.5 semester hours
Enrollment Status and Funding
Individualstudents receiving financial aid may be required to complete hours in addition to those listed 
20
above. The exact requirements for financial aid will be listed in the student’s financial aid award letter
and students are encouraged to contact the Financial Aid Office directly with questions regarding
enrollment expectations.
Other types of funding (i.e. grants) may also require certain enrollment status. Therefore, it is critical
that students work closely with their direct funding source (i.e. a specific grant source) regarding
enrollment expectations.
Finally, enrollmentstatus may impactstudent employee withholdings. Visit Student Employee Payroll
for more information.
MS and PhD students must be registered the semester they defend. If students have met all program
requirements but need to be registered to defend, CAND 5940 is a good option.
CAND5940
Once all required semester hours of thesis work have been taken and all other course work is
completed, students may register for Candidate for Degree (CAND 5940) for the semester in which
they will defend their thesis. CAND 5940 carries no credit or grade, but students pay for one credit of
resident tuition and minimal fees. Students may only enroll in this course once during their final
semester. Students registered for the Candidate for Degree course will be considered full-time for
financial aid and enrollment verification purposes.
Registering for research credits
All students registering for research credits (BIOE 8990, BIOE 6960, BIOE 6950) must email the
Director of Student Services the following information, cc’ing their Research Mentor/PI in order to be
permissioned into the course:
• Student ID
• Term/Year
• Course Number
• Section Number
• Credit Hours
PhD Full-time Enrollment Requirements
The Department recommends that PhD students remain full-time every semester (including summer
in which one credit hour of dissertation is considered full-time) prior to passing the comprehensive
exam.
Courses, Grades & Academic Probation
Students must maintain a cumulative GPA of 3.0. This will include all coursework
that students take during their graduate program, regardless of where the courses
are taught (Anschutz Medical Campus, Denver Campus or Boulder Campus) or
what level they are (graduate or undergraduate). Please note that CU Denver does
not allow grade replacement: all grades count towards cumulative GPA.
Pass = Band GPA
21
A passing grade as defined by the Graduate School is a B- or better; only courses with a grade of “B-
“or better will count towards the final degree requirements. Any course with a grade of “C+” or lower
must be retaken. Students may choose a different course if it is an elective course. Both grades will
count towards the cumulative GPA.
A few other grades that students may see on their transcripts: “W”: this grade appears when students
withdraw after Census Date.
“IP”: All master project/thesis or PhD dissertation hours are reported as “IP” (in progress) until the
final defense exam. At this time, the “IP” grade will be changed to a letter grade.
Per Graduate School rules, if cumulative GPA falls below a 3.0, students will be placed on academic
probation and will have two semesters to raise their cumulative GPA to above a 3.0. (These two
semesters do not include summer if, during the summer, students only take thesis/project/dissertation
credit. This is because the credit will be graded as IP until the defense exam. However, if students are
not enrolled in any course for graded credit during the summer, the summer term will count toward
the two-semester academic probation). Failing to raise the cumulative GPA to at least a 3.0 after two
semesters of academic probation results may result in suspension from the program unless there are
extenuating circumstances.
Before the next semester starts, students are required to meet with their faculty advisor, the Student
Services Director and/or the Department Chair to develop a plan to raise their GPA. Students on
probation cannot register for classes on UCD Access until they complete this step. The Student
Services Director can assist with this process.
“I”: An incomplete grade (I) should only be assigned if a) the majority of coursework has already been
completed and b) the cause for a student’s inability to complete the required work is outside the
student’s control (disease, passing of a family member, etc.). (In all other cases, students are
encouraged to withdraw from the course so as not to impact their GPA. Courses from which a student
withdraws after the add/drop date are graded with W). Incomplete work has to be completed within
one academic year. The Registrar automatically changes an I to a failing letter grade (F) after one (1)
year, unless a grade change is initiated by the Course Instructor. If a student enters military service
before completing a course and an I is reported, this grade may be carried on for the duration of the
student's service, provided this service requirement has been communicated to the Graduate Program
and the Graduate School.
Withdrawing from a Class
Students may withdraw from a class up until Census Date each semester without it being recorded on
their transcripts. Withdrawals after Census Date will be recorded on the final transcript with a grade
of "W." To withdraw from a class after Census Date, please fill out the Schedule Adjustment Form and
ask the instructor to sign. After the withdrawal deadline, a student can only withdraw due to
extenuating circumstances and the Dean also has to sign. Please refer to the Academic Calendar for
information on dates.
Repeating a Class
Per the Graduate School Handbook, a student who received a failing grade (less than a B- ) in a
required class may repeat that class one time only. Both grades will appear on the transcript and be
included in the cumulative GPA. A recorded grade of W counts as an attempt. Students may withdraw
22
from or fail a class the first time taking it, but must pass it the second attempt. Failure to meet course
requirements may result in dismissal from the graduate program at the end of the term in which the
failing grade or withdrawal from a required course occur the second time.
Program of Study Sheet
It is critical for students to establish their Program of Study during the first semester. The Program of
Study is a list of all the courses students need to take to meet the degree requirements. It is acceptable
and even expected that the program of study may change as students learn more about bioengineering
and the available research opportunities. However, by documenting these courses and subsequent
changes each semester, students and their Academic/Research Advisor can ensure that they are on
track to meet all the Bioengineering and Graduate School requirements. Having regular conversations
with their advisor about academic progress can avoid miscommunication and misconceptions that may
delay graduation.
To help with this planning, there is a Program Worksheet form for each degree program (MS & PhD).
available on Resources for Current Students page on the department website.
Independent Study
Students may choose to do an independent study and count it as an elective for the degree. Students
must check in with their faculty advisor first. If the instructor is not a core BIOE faculty member,
students need to ask their faculty advisor to serve as the instructor of record. They must fill out a
Special Processing Form, attach a syllabus with specific assignments for each week, course objectives
and grading rubrics, and submit them to the Director of Student Services. It is important to understand
that the independent study must be different from the final project or thesis. The GAC will review
and make the final decision.
Transferring Credit
The Graduate School Rules define the guidelines for transferring credit toward a graduate degree at
CU Denver. The Department of Bioengineering defines the process by which these transfers must be
approved. Please refer to the Office of Graduate Education Rules and consider the following:
1. The maximum amount of transfer work that may be applied toward the MS degree is twelve
(12) hours of coursework and thirty (30) hours of coursework for the PhD degree.
2. Master’s courses applied to one previously conferred Master’s degree program may not be
applied to our MS program. However, graduate level coursework (5000 level or higher) taken
for a Master’s degree may be applied toward the PhD program with GAC approval. If the
coursework is to be applied to a core course, the instructor of that course must also give
approval.
3. Coursework taken for a doctoral degree may be applied toward a concurrent Master’s degree
with the program approval. Note that if a doctoral student wishes to complete their MS degree
along the way, the work performed for their MS research or project may not be included as
part of their PhD thesis or defense.
4. MS students must complete the Transfer Credit Form and submit to the Director of Student 
23
Services. The GAC will review and make the final decision.
5. PhD students can request transfer course evaluation after completing one full-time semester
with a passing GPA of 3.0. Students should complete the Transfer Credit Form and submit to
the Director of Student Services. Once approved by GAC, the Graduate School will review
and make the final decision.
Substituting a Core Class
A student may petition to substitute a different course in place of a required core class. For example,
if the student has taken an equivalent course previously in a different department or at a different
university that will be transferred in for degree credit. The student must provide supporting documents
with their petition including course description and syllabus with learning objectives. The student
must meet and obtain consent from their academic or research advisor, and complete the following
form: Petition a Core Class Substitution and submit it to the Director of Student Services The GAC
will review this petition and notify the result to the student via email. It is highly recommended that
the student submit this petition in a timely manner in the case it is not approved.
Waiving a Core Class Requirement
A student may petition to waive a core class requirement by filing a Petition for a Waiver for a Core
Class to the GAC. Such a waiver may be approved on a case by case basis and with consent from the
course instructor. The waiver will be reviewed by the GAC and may be approved or not approved.
For MS students, the petition should be filed a year prior to graduation. For PhD students, the petition
should be filed at the time they pass their preliminary exam.
Withdrawing from the Program
Students may choose to leave the Bioengineering program for academic or non-academic reasons.
When a student withdraws from the program, they are responsible for dropping any enrolled classes,
including independent study credits. If this is done after the course drop deadline, then the student is
responsible for covering the remaining tuition expenses. Similarly, any other university fees/healthcare
costs incurred by the student after they have withdrawn or stopped working in their research lab (if
doctoral student) are the responsibility of the student. As soon as a student decides to withdraw they
must work with the Student Services Director to complete the necessary paperwork. Remember to
return any keys, badges or parking permits.
Bioengineering Degree Options Entrepreneurship Certificates
The Jake Jabs Center of Entrepreneurship in the CU Denver Business School offers two certificates
that may be of interest to Bioengineering students:
• Entrepreneurship Certificate
• Bioinnovation and Entrepreneurship Certificate
Both certificates require that students select from collections of courses with business and
entrepreneurship foci. Graduate-level courses from these programs will meet the BIOE MS general
elective requirement. PhD students should consult with their mentors about the relevance of these 
24
courses to their programs of study.
It may be possible that the BIOE MS project, MS thesis or PhD dissertation satisfies the capstone
requirement for the certificates, provided that the work has an entrepreneurial component and involves
a Business School faculty member. Students should speak with the Business School for more
information and guidance.
Graduate Certificate in Medical Device Design and Entrepreneurship
The graduate certificate in medical device design and entrepreneurship includes nine credits of
coursework and three credits of project work. It is open to anyone interested in a graduate certificate.
More information can be found here.
• BIOE 5054 Regulatory Affairs (3 credits)
• BIOE 5300: Biomedical Device Design and Entrepreneurship (3 credits)
• One bioengineering elective class (3 credits)
• Entrepreneurship project (3 credits)
The Graduate Certificate in Assistive Technology and Inclusive Engineering
The Assistive Technology and Inclusive Engineering graduate certificate provides an in-depth
introduction to the area of inclusive and assistive technologies for individuals aspiring to either work
in the field of technology, disability, and/or aging into disability. The certificate is fifteen credits and
is open to students inside and outside the university who have a BA or BS. A minimum 3.0 GPA is
recommended. More information can be found here.
Graduate Certificate in Neural Engineering
The graduate certificate in Neural Engineering provides students with an in-depth introduction to
cellular and systems neuroscience, neural interfaces, neuroimaging, and neurocomputation, preparing
students to work in industry or academia. The certificate is twelve credits and is open to all graduates
in engineering or neuroscience at CU Denver|Anschutz Medical Campus. More info can be found
here.

Dual MS/MBA
To participate in the dual MS/MBA program, students must apply and be accepted to both degrees.
Though coursework does not necessarily need to be taken for both degrees in a given semester, a
student will remain enrolled in both programs until all requirements for both degrees are met. Degrees
are conferred at the same time.
Dual MD-MS
Bioengineering offers the MS component of a dual MD/MS-Bioengineering. The School of Medicine
manages all admissions to the MD program without input from Bioengineering. Further, matriculation
in the BIOE-MS program first does not confer any admissions advantage to the MD program. Most
dual degree candidates will take a leave of absence between their third and fourth years of medical
school to complete their BIOE-MS requirements. The dual degree option is available to University of
Colorado School of Medicine MD students who are in good standing and have the permission of the
School of Medicine to pursue the dual degree. The MS requirements can be completed by a motivated
student in three semesters (Summer, Fall, Spring) but may require additional time, depending on the 
25
student's course choices and research project. To meet the MS requirements of the dual MD/MSBIOE, students must:
• Complete a modified BIOE MS course program (17-20 credit hours). Please note that exact
course numbers are subject to change):
• Complete BIOE 5020 (Quantitative Core; 3credit hours
• Complete the Technology Core (6 credit hours)
• Complete BIOE 5040 – may satisfy the research ethics course requirement; (2 credit hours)
• Complete the general elective requirement: any graduate-level class agreed to by the academic
and/or research mentors
• Conduct research and produce a project or thesis under the mentorship of an approved faculty
member and earn six credit hours of BIOE 6960 or 6950 (project or thesis hours).
• Establish a committee of at least two BIOE Core Faculty members to oversee the research and
administer the final defense examination.
• Pass a final defense examination:
MD/MS students will count the following classes towards their life sciences and clinical
experiences core requirements, in lieu of BIOE 5041, BIOE 5010 & 5011 or equivalent:
Molecules to Medicine; Cardiovascular, Pulmonary and Renal Systems; Nervous System;
Digestion, Endocrine and Metabolic
Time Commitment
Bioengineering is a very rigorous program. Previous students report that a full course load often results
in 40+ hours of class, homework and study time per week. Combined with research, graduate students
can expect to spend upwards of 50-60 hours per week at their studies and research. In some cases,
students may need to visit the lab on evenings and weekends, and even in the middle of the night or
during holiday time.
Policy on External Employment for PhD Students
PhD graduate students admitted to the Bioengineering program receive an annual stipend, health
insurance coverage and full tuition. They are considered full time students and, per NIH policy, are
expected to devote a minimum of 40 hours to their PhD training. Students may wish to take on
additional paid employment for financial reasons or to gain experience in teaching, industry or explore
other career opportunities. This may be complementary and beneficial to their training and
professional development in University of Colorado graduate programs. Trainees paid by NIH grants
are subject to NIH policies that state:
“NIH recognizes that student or postdoctoral trainees may seek part-time employment coincidental to
their training program to further offset their expenses. Fellows and trainees may spend on average, an
additional 25% of their time (e.g., 10 hours per week) in part time research, teaching, or clinical
employment, so long as those activities do not interfere with, or lengthen, the duration of their NRSA
training.”
The Bioengineering department has decided to adopt the above NIH policies for all PhD students in
our program and as such, PhD students, in good academic standing, may, with appropriate approval,
work up to approximately 10 hours per week in external employment. Such employment must be
approved in advance by the student’s research advisor and chair of the Graduate Affairs Committee
26
who may consult with the student’s Thesis Committee. The student should submit a document to the
Director of Student services who will forward to the Graduate Affairs Committee chair for review.
The document should explain the position and how it will not interfere with their other obligations and
time commitments as a PhD student. Students must remain in good academic standing in order to
continue their external employment. Failure to disclose external employment, falsely reporting, or
willfully exceeding approved hours will be grounds for disciplinary action and possible dismissal from
the PhD program. In rare circumstances, exceptions may be allowed but will require additional
approval from the department chair.
Good academic standing means: maintaining a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.0; passing Preliminary
and comprehensive exams; meeting other Program requirements; demonstrating satisfactory and
timely progress toward the PhD.
 Grad School Policy for Vacation & Leave (PhD)
Graduate school is a privilege; working in the biomedical research/academic field, whether as a
graduate student, a postdoctoral fellow, or an independent investigator, is a time-honored and
challenging profession that requires a high level of commitment and responsibility. Students who
receive full-support stipends from CU Denver | Anschutz Medical Campus PhD programs are required
to pursue their training on a full-time basis, devoting each day of the normal work week, plus any
additional time required by their research projects and academic courses. Additionally, for a student
to maintain full-time status, the following guidelines for vacation and leave time have been established
by the Graduate School. These represent the leave to which a graduate student is entitled; however,
research demands and commitment to graduate studies often result in students using less than the
allotted leave. Individual graduate programs may not have a formalized system for accounting for
vacation and sick leave; if so, vacation and leave monitoring falls under the honor system and is the
responsibility of the student.
Vacation and Holidays
Graduate studentsreceive all University holidays and no more than 14 calendar days (counting all days
Monday through Sunday) of vacation per annum, with no year-to-year accrual. Students continue to
receive stipends during vacations and holidays. In the Graduate School at CU Denver, the times
between academic terms and the summers are considered active parts of the training period and are
not necessarily free times. Studentstaking courses are expected to attend all classes and take all exams
as scheduled. They should not take vacations when classes or exams are scheduled.
Sick Leave and Other Leave
Graduate students may continue to receive stipends for up to 15 calendar days (counting all days
Monday through Sunday) of sick leave per annum, with no year-to-year accrual. Under exceptional
circumstances, additional sick days may be granted following a written request and approval by the
student's Program Director. Sick leave may be used for the medical conditions related to pregnancy
and childbirth.
Parental Leave. Graduate students may also receive stipends for up to 60 calendar days (counting all
days Monday through Sunday) of parental leave per annum for the adoption or the birth of a child.
27
Either parent is eligible for parental leave. Parental leave must be approved by the student's program
director. Sick leave may not be used to supplement parental leave, except as noted above.
Unpaid Leave. Individuals requiring more than 15 calendar days of sick leave or more than 60 calendar
days of parental leave, must seek approval from their program for an unpaid leave of absence.
Approval for a leave of absence must be requested in advance by the student and approved by the
program. The leave period and conditions must be documented, both at the time of leave and at the
time of re-entry in the program. A copy of this agreement must be submitted to the Graduate School.
Termination. Upon graduation or termination, a graduate student forfeits all unused annual and sick
leave; payment may not be made from grant funds (training grants or research grants) for leave not
taken.
Funding, Tuition and Residency Master's Students
The Department of Bioengineering does not have formal research assistantships for MS students.
However, some students have been able to find mentors with research funding. Students may also be
hired as teaching assistants or graders for undergraduate or graduate level courses. Job postings for
such positions are usually distributed by the department 4 weeks prior to the start of the term.
Scholarship information is available at CU Denver’s Financial Aid and Scholarships Office. The
Downtown Campus Financial Aid Office is located in the North Classroom Building on Auraria
Campus. Their phone number is 303-315-5969.
Tuition & Fees
It is difficult to predict exactly how much a student will spend in tuition and fees in a given semester
because not all students take the same number of classes. Students also find that some classes have
additional instructional fees. During the academic year of 2022-2023, in-state graduate students in the
Bioengineering program pay $667 per credit hour; out-of-state graduate students pay $1,456 per credit
hours (subject to change each year).
Currently, Bioengineering graduate students pay Denver Campus tuition and Anschutz Medical
Campus (AMC) fees. Please visit the AMC Bursar’s Office website for more details about student
fees.
PhD Students
All new PhD students are offered a stipend plus tuition, fees, and health insurance at the time of
admission. Continued funding, however, is dependent on a number of factors including but not limited
to mentor funding availability, successful grant applications, residency status, and satisfactory
academic and research progress.
The PhD is a pathway to a career as an independent researcher and most of the available funding for
research comes from public (NIH, NSF) and private research and philanthropic organizations. As part
of the degree path, PhD students are strongly encouraged to write and apply for grants in their first
year. This process prepares the student for success in early career funding and allows mentors to fund
more students as their students start to fund themselves. Your mentor and the department’s Grants 
28
Manager will provide grant-writing guidance.
The following list is not exhaustive, but should give you ideas of where to look for grant and fellowship
opportunities. Each program is going to have its own application requirements, deadlines and review
processes. However, many applications are due in fall for funding the following school year and
review can often take 6-12 months.
Internal CU Denver Programs:
• Colorado Clinical and Translational Sciences Institute TL1 (T32) Predoctoral Fellowship
• Bioscience Discovery and Evaluation Grant Federal Government:
● National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate Fellowships
● NSF Graduate Research Fellowship
● NIH NRSA Predoctoral Fellowship (F31)
● NIH PA-12-149 Research Supplements to Promote Diversity in Health-Related
● NIH R36 Dissertation Award
Other Organizations:
● Graduate Women in Science Fellowship
● American Heart Association
● Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation
● American Association of University Women
● American Association of Cancer Research travel grants
● L'Oreal USA for Women in Science
Many professional organizations will have travel awards to support students who will be attending
annual meetings to present research. In addition to award application deadlines, pay attention to
abstract submission deadlines as well.
Travel Funding
The department does not have specific travel funds for graduate students. However, research mentors
might have available funding for students to attend conferences. Often the professional associations
that sponsor conferences have travel awards. Students are encouraged to explore all of the options.
Colorado Residency
Should you choose to join us for graduate studies, it is important that you begin to establish residency
in Colorado before the start of the semester. Demonstrating your intent to make Colorado your
permanent home (establishing “domicile”) requires more than living here. Key steps include (but are
not limited to) obtaining a Colorado driver’s license, registering to vote in Colorado, registering your
car in Colorado, and pay Colorado state income tax. You must petition for in-state status before the
start of your second year, else you may be responsible for the difference between in-state and out-ofstate tuition. Please visit the CU Anschutz Registrar’s Office for further detailed instructions on
establishing residency and petitioning for a status change. Funded PhD students may only be eligible
for continued funding if Colorado residency is established prior to their second year in the
program. Please reach out to the Residency Office on the Downtown Campus for more information
and direct any questions to residency@ucdenver.edu.
PhD Timeline Table, Year Three and Beyond
Students should use the below table to plan their Program of Study. The individual plans may differ 
29
from the one below, but all students must meet the preliminary and comprehensive examination
deadlines in order to progress in the program.
Pre-app Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4-5
Fall SPR SU Fall SPR SU Fall SPR SU Fall SPR SU Fall SPR SU
Bioengineering Program
Requirements
All post-comp PhDs must take 1-5 credits of dissertation in Fall and Spring and 1 credit in Summer to get to 30 credits
until semester they defend.
Identify Funding & Advisor X
Application X
Admission Decision X
Core Classes + Electives (21
CR)
X X X X
Preliminary Exam X
General Elective Classes(6
CR)
X X
Comprehensive Exam X
Dissertation (30 CR) X X X X X X
Dissertation Defense X
Lab Rotation
At the discretion of the department and the admissions committee, some students may be admitted with
the expectation that they rotate through laboratories for one or two semesters in order to choose a lab.
Rotations would generally occur over the first semester with three required six-week rotations, but
could last for two semesters with three required 12-week rotations at the discretion of the admissions
committee. The students must complete all three rotations during the time specified in the offer letter.
However, if students receive their own funding, from a grant or fellowship, they are no longer held to
the rotations and the completion of rotations is at the discretion of the student and their advisor.
Additionally, the student will be assigned an advisor who is not a PI of one of the rotation laboratories.
Any other changes to the offer letter stipulations must be approved by a vote of the Graduate Affairs
Committee.
Year 1: Preliminary Examination
Each Bioengineering PhD Candidate will complete a PhD preliminary examination, typically during
the spring or summer semester of their first year of study. The exam format will consist of three
components: (1) oral and written presentation of the research topic; (2) oral and written presentation
of the training pathway (coursework and timeline) to prepare the student for the research; (3) oral
exam on undergraduate-level competencies in relevant topic areas. These sections are described in
more detail below. Students are highly encouraged to discuss these items with their research advisor(s)
and form the Preliminary Examination committee as early as possible, certainly no later than the
middle of February. Students should schedule their examination several weeks ahead of time to ensure
that all committee members are available on that date. All written exam materials (Research Plan and
Training Plan) must be turned in to committee members at least two weeks prior to the exam date.
30
The Committee
The preliminary examination committee must consist of three faculty mentors including a primary
mentor (additional committee members may be included but three is recommended). Note that this
committee is not necessarily the same as the candidate’s thesis committee. At least two committee
members must be bioengineering department core faculty. If a candidate has a primary mentor who is
only an affiliated
bioengineering faculty, they additionally require a "primary" co-mentor who is core faculty and who
must be identified prior to their preliminary exam. This core member insures that bioengineeringspecific expectations are met for the duration of the thesis.
The Preliminary Exam consists of three parts:
Part 1: Research Plan
Candidates are expected to identify a relevant bioengineering research topic for their proposed thesis
working closely with their research mentor(s). With the preliminary examination members identified,
and with the help of the Research Methods class, the candidate should prepare a 30-minute
presentation and associated written proposal (2-3 pages) covering the following topics:
a. Research goals and hypothesis: a brief (½ page) introductory summary narrative of the major
goals of their proposed research, and the overall research hypothesis that drives these goals.
b. Background and Significance: a summary of relevant background material, gathered primarily
from peer-reviewed journal articles, which support the research goals and hypothesis.
Given that the candidate’s first year consists of mostly didactic training, this plan is expected to be
fairly general in its detail, and does not need to include preliminary research results or detailed research
methods and approach.
Part 2: Training Plan
Given the research topic proposed in the first part of the exam, the candidate will further create a 15-
minute presentation and an associated 1 page written training plan that describes his/her career
goals/objectives and the training activities to be undertaken for the rest of their PhD program. The
second part of this plan could be broken down as descriptions of the following topics:
a. Formal didactic training: i.e. coursework and its contribution to the candidate’s research area.
This section should include a summary of previous coursework that is relevant and proposed
coursework with a description of how these contribute to the candidate’s graduate preparation.
A table format is recommended for clarity.
b. Informal training: plans to attend local seminars / national meetings; a list of mentors, proposed
meeting arrangements with them, and how these mentor interactions will contribute to the
candidate’s research; additional collaborations with (non-mentor) faculty, if any; lists of any
informal classes such as animal handling or ethics; and any mentoring the candidate may
provide to others.
c. Peer Review: plansfor journalsubmissions, conference abstracts, and/or intramural/extramural
grant applications.
31
Part 3: Background Knowledge
Finally, by mid-February of the Spring Semester the candidate must identify three fundamental
knowledge areas appropriate for their proposed research and inform their mentors/committee of these
areas. It is recommended that one of these areas comprise the anatomy and physiology of the
biological system being studied. For example, a candidate studying a new ultrasound imaging
modality for blood flow might select acoustics, fluid dynamics, and cardiovascular anatomy &
physiology, while a candidate studying orthopedic biomechanics might select mechanics and
dynamics, materials, and musculoskeletal anatomy and physiology.
The candidate will work with their faculty mentor and with their preliminary exam committee
members to select material that they will use for preparation in these three broad knowledge areas such
as textbooks, papers, book chapters, etc. The candidate will be expected to know this material in detail
and answer questions on this material in the oral presentation. It is important to note that the
expectation is for the student to demonstrate undergraduate-level competency in these knowledge
areas as the student is not likely to have completed all the graduate course work in these topics before
the preliminary exam. The goal is to ascertain fundamental knowledge and general ability to think
through problems, not necessarily just memorization of equations.
The Preliminary Examination Committee will then make one of the following decisions:
1. Student has unconditionally passed the Preliminary Examination.
2. Student has conditionally passed the Preliminary Examination. Conditions that the student
must fulfill must be provided to the student along with a date by which the student must do
this.
3. Student has failed the Preliminary Examination. The committee may recommend that the
student stand for the Preliminary Examination a second time (no student may take the
Preliminary Examination more than twice) or may recommend that the student discontinue
further PhD study.
Action steps for student:
1) Submit Preliminary Exam Committee Proposal to the Student Services Director (a month in
advanced is recommended) who will send to GAC for approval.
2) Once approved by GAC, reserve a room through EMS (or have the Student Services Director
create the zoom link) and submit a Request for Exam to the Student Services Director. This should be
done at least two weeks prior to the exam date. Graduate Program Director will sign for final
approval. **Please allow one week for proposal to be reviewed by GAC**
3) The Student Services Director will submit Exam Report to the student’s Thesis Committee Chair
prior to the exam date.
Dissertation Advisory Committee
By the end of the second Fall semester, students will need to establish their Dissertation Advisory
Committee (DAC). The Dissertation Advisor will work with the student to select at least four other
faculty members to serve on this committee. The purpose of the DAC is to advise the student and the
Dissertation Advisor to ensure that the research and dissertation progress in a timely manner. Students 
32
will also likely choose their Comprehensive Examination and Dissertation Defense Committee
members from the Dissertation Advisory Committee. The Committees can be the same.
The Chair of the DAC must be a bioengineering core faculty member and may not be the Dissertation
Advisor. This will allow the DAC to provide more objective guidance to the student and their
Dissertation Advisor. Two members must be BIOE core faculty.
Student must meet with their DAC twice per year following the preliminary examination. Failing to
do so may negatively impact the overall progress. Every other meeting will correspond to a public
Methods & Research Seminar and may also correspond to planning the major examinations.
Graduate Faculty Appointments
In order to serve as a mentor or primary advisor, a faculty member must be appointed as core or
affiliate faculty in the Department of Bioengineering. In order to serve on a thesis or examination
committee a faculty member must be appointed to the faculty of theOffice of Graduate Education
("Graduate Faculty"). The Graduate Faculty is comprised of individuals who have been nominated by
a graduate program on the basis of their research and scholarship, mentoring or teaching, and who
demonstrate a commitment to graduate education and students. The Office of Graduate Education
maintains a directory of Graduate Faculty that they can check if necessary. Please consult the list and
work with the Student Services Director to ensure that all of your committee members have current
Graduate Faculty appointments. Please note that Bioengineering may nominate industry partners or
researchers from other institutions for special appointments, if necessary.
Years 2-3: Comprehensive Examination
Sometime during the end of the second or third years in the Bioengineering PhD program, students
will take their second major examination: the comprehensive examination. Details about this exam can
be found in the Comprehensive Examination Document.
The comprehensive (comp) exam is a major stepping-stone for PhD students. This exam must be taken
by the end of the third year. The first part of the exam is an open seminar (45 minutes), followed by a
closed-door portion (one-two hours) with the exam committee. Once students pass the exam they, will
be admitted to candidacy and officially become a PhD Candidate. Before taking the comp exam,
students must complete all of the didactic coursework (30 credit hours) and have made progress on
their research (as determined by the DAC). It is recommended by the Graduate School that students
earn no more than ten credits of dissertation prior to the semester they take their comp exam. Some
advisors and committees will have specific requirements, but generally, students should have produced
at least preliminary data by this point, have a clear plan for the remainder of their research, and some
sense of where to publish and present.
The Comprehensive Examination Committee must consist of at least four members of the Graduate
Faculty. These members may be the same or different from the DAC members. The Comprehensive
Exam Committee Chair must be a bioengineering core facultymember and may not be the Dissertation
Advisor.
The Graduate School is responsible for documenting the comprehensive exam, and all forms must be 
33
submitted to the Graduate School at least two weeks prior to the comprehensive exam date.
Action steps for student:
a. Work with your committee to reserve a day and time that works for everyone to do your exam.
Create the zoom link. If in-person, work with the Student Services Director to reserve a room.
b. Submit completed Application for Candidacy and Request for Exam forms to Student Services
Director, who will then send to Graduate Program Director for departmental approval, and send to the
Graduate School.
c. The Graduate School will generate an exam report form that will be sent to the Committee Chair.
Years 4-5: The Defense Exam & Graduation
The defense exam is the last major milestone and there are several important deadlines to consider that
precede the defense. The defense exam will begin much like the comprehensive exam, with an open
seminar about 45-55 minutes in length. This seminar should focus entirely on the research, followed
by a closed-door exam by the defense committee.
The final defense committee may be the same as or include different members from the DAC. At least
five members of the committee must hold Graduate Faculty appointments and the Committee Chair
must be a member of the bioengineering core faculty, but not the Dissertation Advisor. One member
must not be a core BIOE faculty member. Please see the earlier section on Graduate Faculty
appointments for more information.
Besides the defense exam, students must complete the following items to graduate. Please see the
Graduation Planning and Deadlines document for more details.
1. Apply for graduation on UCDAccess by Census Date.
2. Submit dissertation for format review to Graduate Education at
thesisdissertationsupport@ucdenver.edu.
3. Submit an Exam Request Form including the Declaration of Original Work) at least two weeks
before the exam to the Director of Student Services.
4. Defend (make sure to email or bring to your defense the Thesis/Dissertation Approval for
committee members to sign
5. Submit Thesis/Dissertation Approval form to Student Services Director
6. Submit final thesis/dissertation to ProQuest
Missing any of these deadlines could result in delay of graduation. There are no exceptions made to
the graduation deadline so please plan accordingly.
Publication Guidelines
As publications are the currency of research, students are strongly encouraged to publish their work.
Each Dissertation Advisor will set their own requirements, but a typical dissertation will result in at
least one first-author, peer-reviewed journal article. For many students, the first publication may come
in the form of a literature review that will also serve as the introduction to the dissertation. By the
comprehensive exam, students should have a good idea what their publications will be and ideally,
should have already submitted one.
34
Time Limit for PhD Completion
Doctoral students, whether enrolled full-time or part-time, must complete all degree requirements
within eight years of matriculation. Students who fail to complete the degree in this eight-year period
are subject to termination from the Graduate School upon the recommendation of the Program Director
and concurrence of the Dean. For a student to continue beyond the prescribed time limit, the Program
Director must petition to the Dean for an extension and include (1) reasons why the program faculty
believes the student should be allowed to continue in the program and (2) an anticipated timeline for
completion of the degree.
Normally, extensions for time to degree are for one year or less, but under rare circumstances, a second
extension may be requested. Complete the Office of Graduate Education’s Extension Request Form.
Approved leaves of absence do not automatically extend the time limits for earning a degree, but they
may be used as a reason to request an extension, if needed.
Policy on Change of Academic Advisor Applicability
This policy applies when graduate students in the Department of Bioengineering PhD program change
advisors during their degree program. This policy does not apply when a student completes a degree
with one advisor and then starts a new degree with another advisor. This policy does not apply if the
change is forced by extreme circumstances, such as the advisor leaving the Bioengineering graduate
faculty.
Rationale
Graduate students in the bioengineering PhD program may have personal or professional reasons for
needing to change advisors during their degree program. This policy ensures a fair process to both the
student and their advisor.
Rules for changing advisors:
1. In general, the student will initiate advisor changes by submitting a petition to the Graduate Affairs
Committee (GAC) requesting the change and detailing the new research advisor.
2. If a faculty member wishes to cease serving as advisor to a particular student, he or she must
petition the GAC, who will decide to approve or deny the change. The advisor must include an
explanation of the reasons for the change along with supporting documentation.
a. For changes initiated due to poor student performance in the research environment,
the advisor must provide documentation of meetings with the student and evidence of poor
performance covering at least three months of observation.
b. For changes due to lack of advisor funds for the student stipend and tuition, the
advisor should provide documentation of laboratory funding. Because funding difficulties
are often predictable months ahead of time, the advisor should contact the committee at
least 4 months before the end of funding to attempt to find other possible solutions. The
GAC expects advisors to prioritize graduate student funding over teaching buy-downs,
summer salary, technician salary and postdoc salary. In these cases, the GAC can choose
to limit or prevent the PI from advising future students in the Bioengineering department.
35
c. Changes initiated due to research misconduct, plagiarism, or a blatant breach of
ethics, safety, or university policies do not need to have 3 months of documentation and
can be initiated immediately. The GAC can then decide whether to allow a lab change or
to remove the student from the program.
3. Students may approach a prospective advisor to inquire whether they would be accepted as a
student if they do switch laboratories. A prospective advisor is not obliged to inform the student's
current advisor. The prospective advisor should consult the Graduate Affairs Committee about
funding and stipend levels prior to accepting the student into their lab.
4. The student must informhis/her current advisor of their intention to change advisors. The students
may do this either before approaching prospective advisors or within one working day after
accepting a position with a new advisor.
5. It is the responsibility of the student to inform the Director of Student Services when they have
changed advisors. The Director of Student Services will process the documents necessary to
comply with university records. Within three weeks of changing advisors, the student must
schedule a meeting with the Graduate Affairs Committee and the new advisor to work out a
revised timetable for procedural requirements (e.g., course of study, proposal, comprehensive
exam, etc., as appropriate). The timetable for the Ph.D. qualifying or comprehensive exam may
be adjusted to accommodate the change in project focus.
6. Note that many offers of student support are conditional upon the student working in a particular
research area or for a particular advisor; when a student changes advisors, the original offer
becomes void. The new advisor and the Graduate Affairs Committee will provide a new offer
of student support according to Graduate School Rules.
Master's Program Milestones MS Timeline Table
Students should use the below table to plan their Program of Study. The individual plans may differ
from the one below, but this shows students how to graduate in two years.
Pre-app Year 1 Year 2
Fall SPR SU Fall SPR SU Fall SPR SU
Bioengineering Program Requirements
MS students may choose to spread their classes out over both years to
ease the load, particularly if they are going to start research right away.
However, taking more creditsin Year 1leaves more time for research in
Year 2.
Application X
Admission Decision X
Core Classes + Electives (21 CR) X X X X
Identify a project/thesis mentor & project X
General Elective Classes (3-6 CR) X X
Project/Thesis (3-6 CR) X X
Defense X
Choosing Your Academic Advisor
Each incoming Bioengineering student is assigned an Academic Advisor. This faculty member may
also be your project/thesis advisor; alternatively, he/she will help you identify a project/thesis advisor.
36
Choosing Your Project/Thesis
MS students have the choice between a Master's project and a Master's thesis.
The Master's thesis is a traditional academic document. If the work results in a peer-reviewed
publication, students are likely doing a thesis. Master's theses are subject to the same formatting
guidelines as doctoral dissertations and must be filed with the Graduate School. Master's theses are
acknowledged on the final transcript with the inclusion of thesis title, whereas Master's projects are
not. For this reason, doing a thesis is usually more beneficial to the student because the research gets
recognition and because a thesis-based masters has more uniform expectations between universities and is
more highly regarded.
Note that the mentor and student may choose to embargo publication of the thesis for up to 1 year to allow
for publication of the research or patent filing.
Students who do a thesis must register for at least three credits (and no more than six credits) of BIOE
6950 during their studies. Students will receive a grade of “IP” (in progress) until their final defense.
Contact the Student Services Director for more details.
For projects where open publication of the final document is not appropriate or desired, such as
projects with an industry partner or projects involving product designs, product testing, regulatory and
policy review, market analysis, business plans, and patent applications, a Master’s project may be
more appropriate. Master’s projects are not published, the project defense is not public, and the title
of the project is not acknowledged on the transcript or degree. However, the Master’s project has the
same requirements for the scope of the work, depth and professionalism of the written report, and must
also be defended in front of a committee of at least 3 faculty (2 of whom are BIOE core faculty).
If doing a Master’s project, students must register for at least three (and no more than six) credits of
BIOE 6960 during their studies. Students will receive a grade of “IP” (in progress) until their final
defense.
All students must have a project and Research Mentor and thesis (or project) title declared by the end
of their first semester in the program. If the research mentor is not a Bioengineering core faculty, then
the student must also choose a Bioengineering core faculty member as their advisor and the chair of the
defense exam committee. Please work with your Academic Advisor and/or Student Services Director
if you’re having trouble. Once decided, please complete the form here.
Choosing Exam Committee
Students should choose their committee by the end of their first year and have at least one or two
meetings prior to their defense. The final defense committee must consist of at least three Graduate
Faculty members, two of whom must be part of the Bioengineering Core Faculty. The Committee’s
Chair must be a Bioengineering core faculty member. The research advisor may also serve as the
committee’s chair. Use the Committee Planning Form to help you with this important task.
Ifstudents choose to work on a project with an industry partner, their Industry Advisor may not already
have a Graduate Faculty appointment; please work with Student Services Director to seek such an 
37
appointment. Alternatively, students may have three Graduate Faculty members plus the Industry
Advisor.
Years 2-3: Final Defense Exam
All MS students must take the final defense exam. However, there are several important deadlines to
consider that precede the defense. Please find specific dates of these deadlines on the Graduation
Planning and Deadlines form.
1. Apply for graduation on UCDAccess by Census Date
2. Submit thesis for format review to Graduate Education at
thesisdissertationsupport@ucdenver.edu.
3. At least two weeks prior to your exam:
• Submit an Exam Request Form and photo for dept. announcement to the Director
of Student Services
• Submit project/thesis to your committee members for review
4. Defend (make sure to bring the Thesis Approval form to the defense exam if doing a thesis)
5. Submit signed Thesis Approval form to the Graduate Program Manager
6. Once approved, submit final thesis to ProQuest and to Graduate Program Manager
Missing any of these deadlines results in delay of graduation. There are no exceptions made to the
graduation deadline so please plan accordingly.
Your defense exam will begin with an open seminar about 45 minutes in length. This seminar should
focus entirely on your research. Plan on one hour of closed-door examination by your Master's
committee.
Publication Guidelines
As publications are the currency of research, you’re strongly encouraged to publish your work. It is
not unusual for a Master's Thesis to result in one or more first-author, peer-reviewed journal articles.
Talk with your advisor about your career plans and your desire to publish.
Time Limit for Master's Completion
Master's students, whether enrolled full-time or part-time, have seven years from their first semester
to complete all degree requirements, including filing the thesis with the Graduate School, if required.
Students who fail to complete the degree in this seven-year period are subject to termination from the
Graduate School upon recommendation from the Department Chair and concurrence of the Dean.
For a student to continue beyond the prescribed time limit, the Department Chair must petition to the
Dean for an extension and include (1) reasons why the program faculty believes the student should be
allowed to continue in the program and (2) an anticipated timeline for completion of the degree.
Normally, extensions for time to degree are for one year or less, but under rare circumstances, a second
extension may be requested. Students need to complete the Graduate School's Extension Request
Form. Approved leaves of absence do not automatically extend the time limits for earning a degree,
but they may be used as a reason to request an extension, if needed.
38
Students who were previously admitted to a Graduate Program but who did not complete that degree
program and who have not been registered for more than one (1) year [i.e., three (3) terms] at CU
Denver | Anschutz must reapply to the Program supplying updated information and academic
credentials. The following requirements must be satisfied before being readmitted:
• Clarify their status with the Graduate Program and Graduate School to determine their eligibility
to return and pursue the same degree;
• Submit an application at least two weeks prior to the first day of the term in which you are
interested in taking a course; and
• Meet any new admission requirements (i.e., background checks, immunizations, etc.)
However, the Program is under no obligation to readmit the student, and the student should consult
with the Program Director before applying. University of Colorado Graduate Readmit Application
(ucdenver.edu).
Continuing from the MS to the PhD
The MS in BIOE is a great stepping stone to a PhD in Bioengineering at CU Denver or elsewhere. Here
are some important things to know:
1. Students should have identified a mentor with whom they will be studying for their PhD.
This person must have guaranteed funding for a PhD student and may or may not be their MS advisor.
2. Students will need to apply to the PhD program following the standard application process.
Students will probably do this during their second year of the MS. Please note that the PhD application
window closes on December 1 for all applicants.
3. Students may apply for certain pre-doctoral fellowships while they are finishing the MS so
that funding is available for the PhD.
Graduate Student Commencement Policy
Bioengineering students participate in the commencement ceremony on the Anschutz Medical Campus
in the Spring and the Anschutz Medical Campus ceremony downtown in the fall. The medical campus
has two ceremonies, one in May and one in December.
Students can only participate in commencement and be hooded if they have successfully defended their
dissertation or thesis.
In order to be listed in the medical campus’ program, you must apply to graduate and let the Director
of Student Services know that you intend to graduate. Bioengineering graduate student diplomas will
list both the University of Colorado Denver and University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus.
Anschutz Medical Campus Badging Office
Phone: 303.724.0399 ∙ Email: Security.BadgeOffice@ucdenver.edu ∙ Office: Fitzsimons
Building First Floor
Directory of Services
39
Go to for: badge replacements, badge holders
Anschutz Medical Campus Parking Office
Phone: 303.724.2555 ∙ Email: security.badgeoffice@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: Fitzsimons
Building First Floor, west side of the Food Court seating area)
https://www.cuanschutz.edu/offices/facilities-management/parking-transportation-maps/parking
Go to for: parking permits, parking tickets,
Anschutz Medical Campus University Police Department
Phone: 303.724.4444 (police dispatch or non-emergencies) or 911 ∙ Office: Anschutz Medical
Campus Building 407 (University Police) 12454 East 19th Place
https://www.cuanschutz.edu/police
Go to for: campus security, lock-out problems
CARE Team
Phone: 303.315.7312 (Denver) 303.724.2866 (Anschutz)
https://www.cuanschutz.edu/student/support/care-team
Go to for: health and safety concerns
Student Health Insurance Office
Phone: 303.837.2127 ∙ Email: studentinsurance@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: Ed 2 North #3200
Go to for: all things student health insurance
Office of Campus Student Services, Anschutz Medical Campus
Phone: 303.724.2866 ∙ Email: StudentAffairs@cuanschutz.edu Office: Ed 2 North #3200
Go to for: university resources
Campus Mental Health Resources
Phone: 303.724.5000 ∙ Email: info@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: Fitzsimons Building
Go to for: campus services available to help with everyday stressors
Bioengineering Staff
Karen Gilbert, Grants Manager
Phone: 303.724.7296 ∙ Email: karen.gilbert@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: BS2, Y18-1007
Go to for: Routing your grant, grants information
Kate Hoch, Department Administrator for Finance and Administration
Phone: 303.724.6280 ∙ Email: kate.hoch@cuanschutz.edu
Go to for: budget, spending, human resources, faculty concerns, concerns with faculty
Shaun Boulier, Student Services Director
Phone: 303.724.9972 ∙ Email: shaun.boulier@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: BS2, Y18-1307B
Go to for: undergraduate and graduate admissions, curriculum information, advising, student
services, Anschutz badges, room reservations, FCQs
Bioengineering Faculty
Department Directory
40
Dr. Kristyn Masters, Professor and Department Chair
Phone: 303.724.8852 ∙ Email: kristyn.masters@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: BS2, Suite 100, Room
1307K
Go to for: biomaterials and tissue engineering, program feedback, significant grievances
Dr. Jeffrey Jacot, Associate Professor
Phone: 303.724.8696 ∙ Email: jeffrey.jacot@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: BS2, Y18-1307M
Go to for: tissue engineering inquiries, graduate admissions questions
Dr. Emily Gibson, Associate Professor and Graduate Program Director
Phone: 303.724.3678 ∙ Email: emily.gibson@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: RC2, 8112
Go to for: quantitative, imaging, cellular biophysics, Graduate Committee questions
Dr. Richard Benninger, Associate Professor
Phone: 303.724.6388 ∙ Email: richard.benninger@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: Barbara Davis Center
4306-D
Go to for: imaging and diabetes, Graduate Committee questions
Dr. Cathy Bodine, Professor
Phone: 303.315.1280 ∙ Email: cathy.bodine@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: CIDE Research Facility, BS3,
Suite 3010
Go to for: assistive technology and rehabilitation, inclusive design and engineering
Dr. Brecca Gaffney, Assistant Professor
Phone: 303.315.7559 ∙ Email: brecca.gaffney@ucdenver.edu ∙ Office: BS3 Suite 3010, Room 119
Go to for: Biomechanics, orthopedics, prosthetics, rehabilitation, clinical assessment tools
Dr. Morris Huang, Research Assistant Professor
Phone: 303.315.0088 ∙ Email: morris.huang@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: BS3 Suite 3010, Room 125
Go to for: Mechatronics, usability testing, assistive technology, clinical assessment tools
Dr. Kendall Hunter, Associate Professor
Phone: 303.724.4197 ∙ Email: kendall.hunter@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: BS2, Y18-1307C
Go to for: quantitative modeling, undergraduate admissions questions
Dr. Steve Lammers, Instructor
Phone: 303.724.9549 ∙ Email: steve.lammers@cuanschutz.edu Office: BS2, Y18 1307G
Go to for: Bioprinting, design projects
Dr. Chelsea Magin, Associate Professor
Phone: 303.724.3344 ∙ Email: chelsea.magin@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: Bioscience 3, Room 3-10-
127
Go to for: regulatory affairs, pulmonary engineering
Dr. Michael Mestek, Adjoint Assistant Professor
Email: michael.l.mestek@cuanschutz.edu
Go to for: health technology commercialization 
41
Dr. Keith Neeves, Professor
Phone: 303.724.3344 ∙ Email: keith.neeves@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: RC2 Room 9006
Go to for: hematology, oncology
Dr. Daewon Park, Associate Professor
Phone: 303.724.6947 ∙ Email: daewon.park@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: RC1 North 4118
Go to for: polymers, drug delivery
Dr. Brisa Peña, Assistant Professor
Phone: 303.724.1113 ∙ Email: brisa.penacastellanos@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: BS3, #121
Go to for: materialscience, atomic force microscopy, cardiac tissue engineering and miRNA delivery
Dr. Eric Roth, Research Instructor
Email: eric.roth@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: BS2, Suite 100, Room 1307F
Go to for: lab safety and compliance, design projects
Dr. Bradford Smith, Associate Professor
Phone: 303.724.0137∙ Email: Bradford.smith@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: RC2 6015
Go to for: pulmonary, independent study and research project questions
Dr. Tarik Walker, Research Assistant Professor
Phone: 303.724.7637∙ Email: tarik.walker@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: ED2S, Room 5108, MS C234
Go to for: Bioengineering Scholars Program
Dr. Richard Weir, Associate Research Professor
Cell: 847.912.1032 ∙ Email: richard.weir@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office: Y18-1307H
Go to for: prosthetics, 3D printing
Dr. Michael Yeager, Research Associate Professor
Phone: 303.724.4191 ∙ Email: michael.yeager@cuanschutz.edu ∙ Office:
Go to for: pulmonary vasculature heart failure cardiopulmonary immunology